If you want teams that are nothing but Togedemaru's and everything else inbetween,
you have to use Debug Mode. 

For 2.0 of Super Yellow Gameplay Edition, I ran out of time to set up 
the Poke Park map. I wanted 2.0 finished before January 2025.

In Super Yellow, there are over 1470 indivudual Pokemon species, when including every distinct form.
If I did not run out of time when it was 1st December 2024, by the time I was finalizing the battle format setup 
for 350 Pokemon Trainers, I would have setup Pokemon Park, with every legal species. 

Debug mode can be enabled without the use of RPG Maker Xp 
by passing the command line argument "debug" 

How to pass the "debug" command line to the game 

1. Right click on Game.exe (On Windows 10, select Show More Options)
2. Create a Shortcut
3. Rename the Shortcut to Game.exe - Debug Mode
4. Right click on Game.exe - Debug Mode and select Properties (On Windows 10, select Show More Options)
5. In Target, add debug at the end of the path like this:
6. "C:\My Path\SYGE 2.0.0\Game.exe" debug

When using the Debug Mode Shortcut, you must hold down the CTRL button to force the game to compile.
Hold down the left or right CTRL key when Pokemon Essentials V21.1 window is visible. The window must be in focus.

How to make Mono Species Pokemon Teams 

Simple Duplication 

1. In the Pokemon Party Screen while in Debug Mode, choose Debug 
2. Choose Duplicate

This will make a one to one copy of the Pokemon you have cloned.
This does not change a Pokemon's form.

Change a Pokemon Species

1. In the Pokemon Party Screen while in Debug Mode, choose Debug 
2. Choose Species/form...
3. Choose Set species. Species are ordered by ID number, aka Pokedex Number 

Change a Pokemon Form 

1. In the Pokemon Party Screen while in Debug Mode, choose Debug 
2. Choose Species/form...
3. Choose Set form. 

Generate a Pokemon 

1. Press Z to open the pause menu 
2. Choose Debug
3. Choose Pokemon options...
4. Choose Add Pokemon. Species are ordered by ID number, aka Pokedex Number 
5. To get a specfic form and make a mono species team, refer to how to Change a Pokemon Form and Simple Duplication.