Pokemon Super Yellow Gameplay Edition 2.0
is a fan game made by a high level competitive Pokemon player,
for high level competitive Pokemon players.
This game assumes you already know the whole picture of playing Pokemon at the highest level.

Super Yellow is not designed to be Nuzlockable,
and the Randomizer feature was added in at the last minute,
after I decided I should add it in for those that like that feature.
I myself don't like Nuzlockes and Randomizers.
The randomizer does not randomizer the player's Pokemon.

When you click New Game, this is what you have:

One of every Pokemon Species, including Regional Forms and diffcult to get Pokemon

All generated Pokemon will have 31 IV's, 100% of the time. This inclues the player's the wild's and the opponent's Pokemon.

Every Pokemon the player gets from clicking New Game, have preconfigured Competitive Movesets. They are still required to be fully trained
 
Every Item that exists in this build of Pokemon Essentials
 
An Individual Pokemon's movepool in it's enterity can be relearned via going to the Party Screen (Level Up, TM, Tutor, Egg and Event Moves)

Mega Evolution, Z-Moves, Dynamax, Teras, Dynamax Inhibitors, and every method to toggle between the forms and evolutions of specfic Pokemon  

EV's can be assigned via the Summary Screen, IV's can be changed via the Party Screen, and Natures can be changed via Nature Mints

The Pokedex Data Page, that acts as an in game wiki that can be kept up to date 

All Trainers and the player have Lvl.100 Pokemon, no grinding required

Every method to fully max out and optimise a Pokemon Team can be the done the second you click New Game

You cannot just choose whatever Pokemon you want and just waltz into a trainer battle.
You have to look at the whole picture of every aspect of how to use a Pokemon in battle.
This means a Pokemon is holding an item, it's IV's and EV's are configured, 
it's movepool serves a role on the team, it's Tera Type is configured, it's Dynamax is maxed out or inhibited
and every other Pokemon on the team can cover for each other's weaknesses or vulnerabilities.
You will almost always lose if you do not bother using the tools the game unconditionally gives you.

How to Fully Train a Pokemon Team 

After choosing a Team Composition of your liking, these are the steps:

1. EV/IV Values

1a: 
Press Z and choose Pokemon. Choose a Pokemon, Choose Change IVs. 
Outside of hyper specfic strategies, Attack can be lowered to reduce Foul Play damage, 
and Speed can be adjusted for Speed Tiers, or set to 0 for Trick Room.

1b: 
Press Z and choose Pokemon. Choose a Pokemon, Choose Summary. 
Go to the Skills page, press Space to assign EVs.

2. Nature Effect (Quick and Artifical)

2a: 
Access the Pokemon Storage System, the computer in front of the Pokemon Center Building. 
Choose Pokemon Nature Changer. 

3. Nature Effect (Manual and Natural)

3a: 
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Berry Icon for Natures/Abilities. 
Mints change a Stat Modifier, but don't alter a Pokemon's Nature directly.

4. Assigning and Tweaking Abilities

4a: 
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Berry Icon for Natures/Abilities. 
Select the Ability Capsule and choose a Pokemon. 
Nearly all Pokemon can have 1 out of 4 abilities.   

5. Changing and Tweaking Moves 

5a: 
Press Z and choose Pokemon. Choose a Pokemon. Choose Egg/TM/Tutor/Moves. 
To remove Hidden Machine/Field Moves, 
go to the Supply Clerk, on the right of the Pokemon Storage System.

5b:
To teach a Universal Move to a Pokemon, 
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Disc Icon for TMs/HMs/UTMs.
Go to the bottom and choose any Universal Move.

6. Giving a Pokemon a Held Item 

6a: 
Press Z and choose Pokemon. Choose a Pokemon. Choose Item, choose Give.
Most of the time, these item pockets are where you want to give a Pokemon an item:

Natures/Abilities for Berries
Mega/Dyna/Tera for Specfic Pokemon 
Battle Items for specialized/edge case strategies
Best Items for broadly useful or simply the best strategies 

7. Full Happniess or Empty Happniess

7a: 
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Berry Icon for Natures/Abilities.

7b: 
Use the Tamato Berry to max out happniess, 
to max out the Fairy Type move Return. The move Egg Bomb, a Universal Move, replaces the role Return/Frustration served in the offical games. 
It takes roughly 30 to 40 Friendship Berries to max out happniess.
To regenrate all Items, go to the Supply Clerk, on the right of the Pokemon Storage System.

7c: 
Use the Vile Berry to min out happniess,
to max out the Dark Type move Frustration. The move Egg Bomb, a Universal Move, replaces the role Return/Frustration served in the offical games. 
It takes roughly 20 to 30 Anti Friendship Berries to min out happniess.
To regenrate all Items, go to the Supply Clerk, on the right of the Pokemon Storage System.

8. Hidden Power Type 

8a:  
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Mega Stone Icon (The Bacon shape) for Mega/Dyna/Tera.
Scroll to the bottom and choose the Hidden Orb Item. 
Hidden Power Type affects the moves Hidden Power and Hidden Force.
Hidden Power Types in Super Yellow can be Fairy and Stellar, on top of every other Type. 

9. Toggling Normal Colors/Shiny Colors/Super Shiny Colors 

9a:
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Mega Stone Icon (The Bacon shape) for Mega/Dyna/Tera. 
Scroll to the bottom and choose the Sparkling/Super Vial Item.

10. Changing a Pokemon's Poke Ball 

10a:
Press Z and choose Pokemon. Choose a Pokemon, Choose Change Poke Ball. 

11. Maxing and Inhibting Dynamax 

11a:
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Mega Stone Icon (The Bacon shape) for Mega/Dyna/Tera. 
Scroll to the bottom and choose the Dynamax Candy XL/Max Soup/Dynamax Inhibitor Item.
Dynamx Candy Xl sets a Dynamax Level to the max of Lvl.10, 
Max Soup Toggles the Form of a Gigantamax Pokemon, and 
Dynamax Inhibitor toggles if a Pokemon that consumes the item can Dynamax or not.
In battle, there are suitations where you need to Tera straight away.
With no inhibitor, one Pokemon on the player and opponent's team has to Dynamax, before they can tera.
Mega Stone holding and Z-Crystal holding Pokemon can't Dynamax or Tera.       

12. Assigning a Tera Type 

12a:
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Mega Stone Icon (The Bacon shape) for Mega/Dyna/Tera. 
Scroll to the bottom and choose the Master Tera Jewel.
In Super Yellow, only the Pokemon Type:Null can be the ??? Type. A type that has existed since Gen 2, but never existed to players that don't know about Pokemon's Mechanics.

13. Where are the Z-Crystals?

13a:
Press Z and choose Bag. Go to the Best Items Icon (The key shape) and move to the right. 
Mega Stones for Mega Pokemon are as simple as giving a Mega Evolving Pokemon it's special Marble.

14: Why does my Pokemon Storage have a full row of Dittos?

14a:
Those Ditto's are stand in's for people who enable Debug Mode and want to make a Mono Species Team.
Refer to How to make Mono Species Pokemon Teams.txt for more information.

15: How long does a team of 6 Pokemon in a team take?

15a:
If you know what you are doing, it takes less than 10 minutes to fully max out 6 Pokemon for a team.
If you don't know what you are doing, or constantly tweaking and experimenting, an hour at worst?
My test run of fully training the stock team you get wasn't efficent, and it still took me less than 10 minutes.

16: Where do I go to know what all the moves in the game do?

16a:
Press Z and choose Pokedex. Go to Number 132, Ditto and choose the Data Page.
Select the Moves Tab. Go to the TM/Tutor section.
The following Pokemon all share the quality of learning every move in the game:

132 Ditto
150 Mewtwo 
151 Mew 
201 Unown
235 Smeargle
493 Arceus
773 Silvally
1024 Terapagos

This is to allow the Data Page to act as an in game wiki that be kept up to date.

Super Yellow uses the Enhanced Battle UI, part of the Deluxe Battle Kit.
In Battle, Press the A key when a move choice is highlighted, for more exact details on a move.

17: Where do I go to know what all the abilities in the game do?

17a:
The Pokedex Data Page sadly does not solve using it as an in-game wiki for abilities.
You can see what abilites a Pokemon have, as well as other Pokemon that have that ability.
But there sadly is not a dedicated area in the data page for just showing all the abilities in the game. 

18: 300+ Pokemon Trainers!?

18a:
In Pokemon Super Yellow Gameplay Edition 2.0,
there are a total of 365 Pokemon Trainers to battle.
Each trainer has a full team of 6 Pokemon.
And have dedicated Single and Double Battle teams.
And the player has choose the following formats for these battles:

Battle with no Items 
Battle with Items 
Inverse Battles
Auto Battles

6 * 365 = 2136 Single Battle Pokemon fully edited in trainers.txt to be competitive
6 * 365 = 2136 Double Battle Pokemon fully edited in trainers.txt to be competitive

Or 4272 Pokemon Team entries that had to be crafted, to make engaging and fun battles.
This had to be done, because the player does not have to in pratice, bother with Debug Mode 
to be in God Mode. 

At one point, as I was finallizing the Battle Format Events setup for each trainer,
I was working for 7 hours straight, it ended up being 12:30 am to 1:00 am by the time by body started giving out,
and then it took 3 more hours the day after. Only to find out the entire time, I straight up forget to setup 7 Pokemon Trainers.
That took more hours that I don't remember how long it took. 
This was all in the span of 2 days. N from Gen 5 Black and White was the final Pokemon Trainer setup in trainers.txt.

I wanted to start 2025 working on Falling Stones, an orginal video game project.
So I had to grind out setting up these events, before the stress of Christmas, and getting the download links setup kicked in. 
Super Yellow Gameplay Ediiton is complete with this release. 

Remember. People don't care about what happened behind the scenes of development.
They will not sugarcoat if they don't like your game.
Your free to say if this game should delete itself, now!

The distinct selling points of Super Yellow, compared to fan games such as Tectonic and Retired Champion:

Normal Type attacks without STAB match your first type. Or NTAW STAB MYFT for short
All Mainline Battle Gimmicks, From Gen 6 to Gen 9
Nearly every Pokemon is obtainable and usuable in battle
All Pokemon, Gen 1 to Gen 9 having a revamped Base Stat Total Power Curve of 500, 550 and 600, with some exceptions
All Moves, Gen 1 to Gen 9 existing, and nearly every move's purpose in the metagame of Pokemon have been tweaked or revamped
Nearly all Pokemon, Gen 1 to Gen 9 having Typing Changes
Signficant Type Chart Changes
The Source Project comes included in the Download Link/Github Download
Easily Toggable Debug Mode for players/developers
365 Pokemon Trainer Battles, for Single and Double Battle Metas
Double Weak Type Matchups take Times 3 damage in Super Yellow 

Super Yellow Gameplay Edition Future Update plans

3.0

The Field Effect System Update. The existance of a v21.1 version of Field Effects Essentials Project
came into existance on the 20th November 2024, on Poke Community: https://www.pokecommunity.com/threads/emulated-rebornian-rejuvenian-field-effects-revamped-battle-tower-v2-1-0b-v21-1.532565/

Super Yellow 2.0, going back to the drawing board after v1.0.1 of Super Yellow was released roughly on June 16, 2024,
was too deep into development to start over, in order to get the Field Effect System working.

3.0 of Super Yellow will start all over again, because of the complex nature of the Field Effect System.

3.1

The Shadow Pokemon Update. This update will implement what is needed for Shadow Pokemon to work for Super Yellow's design needs.

3.2

The Movepool Update. This update will revamp the level curve of all 1000+ Pokemon's movepools, to prepare for Super Yellow's Story Mode update.

3.3

The Abilities Update. This update will fully redux nearly every ability from the offical games.

4.0

The Story Mode/Multiplayer Update. This update will have a playable non linear open ended Pokemon Region. Kanto or orgial region will still be decided at this point.